(upbeat music)
- Good morning, Vietnam!
(groans)
- Ah.
- What's everyone drinking?
- Oh, I have a boring lime perrier.
- It's not as boring as mine.
Water.
- Okay, yeah.
- Yeah, that's what I had last time.
- I've got an ice coffee and a pop made from a soda stream.
- You're drinking an iced coffee at night?
- Yeah, yeah.
- I think drink coffee, go to sleep.
- Yeah, that's pretty cool.
- Yeah.
- Did you carbonate your ice coffee?
- I didn't.
My partner was, I mean, as soon as we got this thing,
I wanted to start just carbonating everything.
- Right.
- And to her credit, she was much more of an adult than me.
It was like, let's just stick to water for now until we get used to it.
I'm like, "Oh, look at all these liquids that are not carbonated.
This is bullshit."
- Well, the trick I've discovered is to, and I haven't had one in a while though,
but when I did, I wanted to carbonate everything as well.
It was working with some juices and things like that,
but it was just kind of making it nasty in others.
The trick is to not carbonate the juice.
You got to kind of water things down with your carbonation.
If you want a carbonated orange drink, like I did,
I would make some fresh squeeze, O.J.
and then I would water it down with carbonated water from the soda stream.
It was a lot better than trying to actually water down the O.J.
and then carbonate that.
For some reason, it was not working out as well.
- Makes sense.
- Plus, I mean, you're just going to gum up the works.
That was the thing that I was worried about.
A legitimate concern was that it was not designed for anything other than water,
so fucking knock it off.
Well, I will try that. Thank you.
I didn't do that for this though.
These are separate beverages.
- Is somebody typing?
- I had to get my list. I'm sorry.
I'll be done in one second. I'm just going to the list.
- No.
- Unprofessional.
- You're going to print it in the sound?
- Fuck now.
There it is.
- All right, I'm good.
- Yeah, my work was kind of busy.
- I was at only had time to really shot up some notes about the noise engineering thing.
I don't know if I'm going to be able to dip into the reminder.
Unfortunate.
- Oh, yeah.
- I kind of want to know about that, but I understand if you don't want to go into it.
I was looking at that the other day, and, uh, yeah.
Let's not talk about it though.
[laughter]
- We're just going to edit this out, or is it just going to be this like weird tease?
- Weird tease.
- Here's something we could have talked about.
We can just list all kinds of things that we could talk about, and then just not.
- Stay tuned and find out if we actually talk about it.
[laughter]
- That's for our patreon's.
- Yes, exactly.
- You back for the patreon we don't have.
- If you've backed us, uh, actually then in the patreon you go there, it's just us listing
more things we could talk about.
- If you really want the juicy stuff, add me on snap.
- Oh.
- Also, I like that people, um, listen to this with no context of what the fuck we're talking
about, and I don't know how they process it, but that happens.
So, hi people, that listen with no context of synthesizers.
- Fuck.
[laughter]
- Oh, wait, we're talking about synthesizers?
Fuck, I got the wrong notes.
- Yeah, wrong podcast.
[laughter]
- This one's about laxatives.
- I thought we were talking about anime and weed.
- Okay.
I'm ripping up the fat vape pen right now.
[laughter]
- Listeners.
- I think I spent most of the last episode talking about VR.
- There was some good content.
I can hate that word.
- It was good content.
[laughter]
- Am I a content creator now?
- Are you an influencer?
- Oh shit.
- Was anyone influenced to buy VR after that lengthy explanation?
- I don't know.
- Get us up.
Tweet us.
Tweet us friends.
- Add me on snap.
- I didn't want snap.
- You only have to kill one person to be a murderer, so if you influenced one person to buy VR shit,
you're an influencer.
- Yeah.
- By definition.
- Do you put VR shit on your snap?
Like weird shit?
- I can.
- I'll call it.
- I'll request for anyone on my premium.
- I don't use snapchat, but I'd probably sign up for that.
[laughter]
- It's just me with VR goggles on, flogging myself.
- You can't see what I'm seeing, but just use your imagination.
[laughter]
- Oh shit.
- So the index though, that's popping off right.
Did we talk about that last time?
I can't.
- I didn't have it last time.
I just had my riff.
- So I thought.
- Yeah.
So I just spoiled it.
[laughter]
I was going to dip back into it, but I suppose I can't.
Oh, yeah.
I sold the riff that shifted out yesterday.
Got the index in.
Got the full finger tracking.
Hi, Rez.
- Wait, wait.
Slow down, slow down.
What is all of this stuff?
- It's the future, Dave.
- Yes, but those of us who aren't in the future can at least give us a overview.
- It's the new VR headset and controllers from Valve.
- That's virtual reality.
- Virtual reality, yes.
Like Johnny Nemonic.
- Mm.
- Loma or a man?
- A documentary.
- I continued on my movie spree as well.
- What'd you go to?
- Wait, wait, wait.
We just deviated from VR in our heard--
- Well, I wasn't deviated.
- No, okay.
- It's VR-related movies.
Like I started watching, I watched "Existence."
- I love that.
- I like that movie.
- Yeah.
- Holy shit, that's so good.
- I forgot how much I liked that movie.
- Yeah.
- Underrated.
Highly underrated.
- Very.
- Now, his son is making a movie also in the VR vein that--
- Damn it.
- I can't remember the name of, but the trailer looks absolutely fantastic.
It looks like if you took "Existence" and "Video Jerome" and like they had a baby in 2020.
- Mm-hmm.
- This is like, yeah, it just looks insane.
I'm gonna have to Google that now.
Hold on.
Stand by.
- "Posesser."
- Is the name.
Is there a unnecessary Z in it?
Like, existence?
- Uh, no.
- Yeah.
- Also, watch it.
- But fun fact, he had a big hand in the special effects of existence.
I didn't know that.
- Not a normal size hand.
- Just a huge hand.
Like in the Foo Fighters video, you know?
- So fucking bad.
- Jesus Christ.
- I'm a child.
- You should slap a Z in there, though.
- There should be a Z.
So wait, what's the premise of this movie that he's making?
- I don't know.
Some, like, the trailer is complete nonsense, but it looks awesome.
Like, it's just somebody, um, kind of, like, altered states-ish.
Like, it looks like they're doing some sort of experiment.
This woman's a volunteer.
She keeps strapping herself into, like, this hardcore VR get-up.
They're, like, injecting her with stuff and attaching this stuff to her face.
And she's, like, going into some virtual realm.
It just looks pretty, uh, pretty insane.
- Sweet.
- Fucking hate altered states, by the way.
- What?
- That movie drives me fucking insane.
- Wow.
- Okay, but here's the thing.
Like, I saw it as a kid, and, like, the first three quarters of it, I was like, I was fucking
there.
I'm like, oh my God, this is literally the best thing I've ever seen in my fucking life.
And when he turned into the 8-bit, it just fucking was so disappointing, dude.
- He's going back to his primitive monkey brain.
- It just...
- But did he turn into a monkey, or was he just having a bad trip?
- See, that's the thing.
We don't, you know, it's kind of...
- It just kind of big.
- I wanted it to...
I wanted it to go into a psychedelic realm that it couldn't have gone into, maybe, at the
time.
And the aspect, it was like peeking on a trip and then ending up just somewhere that wasn't
really...
- Ended up in a subway bathroom.
- Yeah, I was going to say like a Dunkin' Donuts or something like that.
Yeah, like, some fucking hallucinatory fluorescent light pulsing away, just like...
Maybe it was a pretty good movie.
Maybe that's why you were consulted about how that movie should end.
Alright, so we go to Dunkin' Donuts.
- Time to make the donuts.
- Actually, I don't think I've seen it in a pretty long time now.
- It's been a while.
- I'm gonna be sure you watch it.
- I used to love it.
But it's been amazing.
I sampled the living shit out of it over the years, but...
- What parts in particular?
Like, what was a good sample?
- I liked to sample a lot of the screams from it, especially towards the end when they're
in there, that like psychedelic whirlpool.
And he's like mutating and screaming.
- I remember talking to you about this years ago.
- Yeah, I think 'cause you asked me what some of the samples I was using and some of the
Prometheus stuff was.
- Yeah, I think so.
- And we ended up discussing altered states.
- It's a fucking A, right?
You know, let's kick it off.
- Yeah, I mean, I heard people have lists.
It was a list.
- I have 80 things, but I don't want to kick it off.
I'm feeling like that.
- Well, who is the longest list?
They should go first.
- I got four things.
- I've got three things.
So, Nick, I think you should go first.
- First?
- Uh...
- Bionic Cluster.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I'll give my Bionic Cluster three review now that I have one.
'Cause you guys had one and I didn't bite on it a while ago.
And really wanted a stereo filter 'cause I was trying to do a stereo signal path in the
modular.
I was like, "Okay, don't have quite the filter I want.
ER 301 can do filtering, but that is by far not at strong point.
Those filters don't sound like a Bionic Cluster or anything else, really.
They're cool, but not that cool.
Bionic Cluster three though, holy shit.
I did not realize that Scott modeled that somewhat after a Nordlead one, I guess, or a Nord--one
of the Nord leads, maybe the three.
But man, the resonance is really fucking amazing.
The swept modes, and we've covered some of this before, but going into the comb and the
resonance are probably my favorite things.
And just the overall--I feel like it's--like he's--it felt like the peak to me of some of
his designs because it's so fucking easy to use and so flexible and it just seems like
really solid.
And yeah, just huge props, really, really like it.
So glad I picked it for the stereo filter, even though it's digital.
Zero complaints really so far.
It's fucking tremendous.
I think the comb filter was definitely like my favorite aspect to it.
Although I never really used it in stereo, believe it or not.
It's kind of sending one channel to the other dual processing.
Now that you mention it, I was using it in the linked stereo, but that makes me want to
try it in unlinked stereo to do some different parameters.
Some weird, like, binaural filter sweeping.
Yeah.
Yeah, like the presets and the way you can kind of morph through them.
I haven't played with it too much, but it's just pretty--it's nice to be able to recall
that shit pretty quickly.
Definitely digging that.
Yeah.
So yeah, super good stereo filter that I use in mono and stereo a lot.
Definitely scratch the itch for sure.
Yeah, and the overdrive is nice too.
It definitely adds a nice color to some thinner digital things that I've been trying to beef
up a little bit.
Yeah, and I like that it can be subtle.
Just put a little bit on it or you can really crank it and turn it to shit.
Yeah, add a little bit of that digital soft clipping crunch.
Yep.
Yeah, I definitely--I don't have it much past noon, I don't think.
But yeah, it's definitely--I've used it a lot for smooth shit.
The resonance is pretty nice in some ways, and it handles like disgusting things as well
as smooth, just like bass sounds and stuff like that.
So definitely super into it.
I'm not into fucking 303s that don't work.
That's fucking not cool.
So I'll go into the acid saga quick because that was a quick review.
So yeah, fucking 303s.
I like to use them sometimes.
I was finishing up trying to finish up some material and I was reviewing some tracks and
was just like, huh, there's like something missing.
And then one morning I just started to fucking got the TB3 out, which is still maybe my favorite
acid box in a way, but that's the next thing.
But I just started to add some 303 lines to some tracks and immediately I posted something
stupid on Instagram and immediately, like three people that I respect were just like,
fucking--fuckin' do this, like finish the shit.
And I was like, okay, I want to keep drilling into this a little bit.
And that made me want to have some competing 303 lines on tracks.
I wanted two things and I wanted one to be just different.
And the TB3, like the disgusting Ira one that I still kind of fucking love, that's green
and weird, a few people remarked to me that it sounds like a VST quote unquote.
And I'm like, okay, I kind of hear what you're saying with that.
It's like not raw analog, but it's still like my favorite sequence at a program.
So at first I was like, okay, I'm going to get an XOX box.
And I took the risk of like a 300-some dollar XOX box on Reverb and got it and like screw
immediately fell out of it.
It was making fucking ground loops and buzzes when I touched the panel, but it did run.
But then I started to notice it was like writing rests when I touched the panel.
And I was like, oh fuck, like this is--
That's hilarious to me.
Yeah, it was--but the thing is like, I didn't have much recourse.
I bought it as is, you know, it wasn't even like shop policy.
I knew it was like, okay, this might be a thing, but it looks like it was modded to--it had
another oscillator and all that shit worked, kind of, except from the rest and everything
like that.
But then I fucking made the mistake of taking that panel off.
And I, as I had to do to check it out and realized it was like definitely like the fucking
shittiest drunk solder job I've ever seen.
Like, not even--I don't know.
Nobody gave a fuck about any of the solder joints.
I immediately wanted to reflow the whole thing and it was just like, okay.
I'm imagining like, you pull the panel off and it's just like a giant rat's nest of like
cave pop and cockroach comes crawling out.
There's like a cigarette button there.
It was a little gross and like the nature of the modded XOX boxes, like it's fucking packed
already.
Like, you've got a--even like, you know, Luke who like--he's a very high level like builder
of things and mechanical and electrical and he had to get his like helped from Brian Casketer,
the XOX I/O guy, like just to fix like a mixer and something because it's that complicated
and difficult.
So it's already kind of klugey.
This dude, it was like the tape was coming off the fucking flying wires.
It was just like an immediate mess.
I took it apart and some of the internal structure of it like the screw fell out and I was like,
oh shit, I'm going to have to rebuild this thing like right now.
So I did and I screwed it back together and the fucking sequence I wouldn't even come
on at all.
And it was just like, okay.
I like definitely almost rage broke it but I've been meditating every morning so I didn't,
which was cool.
And it's just upstairs now in a fucking box.
Dude, that masking tape you peeled off.
That was a structural that actually was holding a lot of it up.
It has load bearing masking tape.
There was like, there was, I touched the back at one point and the hum went away and I was
like, oh shit, okay, there's just like a ground wire that's fucked up here or something like
that.
I've just got to find this and make a new ground.
So that was kind of my mission and then the fucking mission went awry and everything
just fell to shit.
Is it salvageable?
I mean, can you repair the server?
Oh yeah.
I'm going to fucking fix it.
There's nothing in this that couldn't be redone.
I highly suspect that maybe an IC got fried because of a short or something like that.
I'm just going to check that out.
But I don't have the heart to get into that.
I wanted to start making fucking music and I wanted to continue doing that.
So the next stop was to, I borrowed Prezolob's TB03, which is the newer Roland clone.
And it sounds way better.
It sounds really good.
It's the first time I was like, okay, there's something that the TB3, the original is missing.
There are liquid territories it can't go to.
I like having the envelope modulation on just a regular fucking knob and the decay instead
of the weird-ass touchpad and shit like that.
So yeah, I really like that.
But I was still like, okay, that's 400 bucks and I don't really want to do that right now.
And I was there at the studio to pick it up and Ruderman had the TD3, which is the parent
your clone that just came out.
He played it on the monitors.
I was like, okay, it sounds better than the XOX.
It's got some liquidness to it and the bass is really good.
It sounds alive.
Like as cheesy as that is, it sounds analog.
So it was like, okay, it got one for $130.
I compromised the bare thin ethics that I try to have getting this fucking baronge or
piece of shit.
And it's like, I took it out of the box and it felt like it was going to float away.
I remember.
It's just made of cardboard.
How can you make plastic that fucking thin?
I know that I could crush it with my hands right now.
It's weird, right?
But also like, it's just as cartoon sounding as the fucking thing looks because the gate
timing is all wrong, like the accent gate, which is a very particular 303 sound and you
could hear right away, you're like, oh, that's like 100, 200 milliseconds too long.
It sounds fucking wrong.
It doesn't even pop the filter up right.
Oh, this has got like no snap to it.
No, it's just, it's got like a...
...pulse to it instead of a snap, you know?
Immediately it was just like, oh, I want to turn the decay down on that gate.
I want to shorten that gate.
Yeah.
So it sounded different than the one Ruderman played for you.
I couldn't like...
All I heard there was like, I heard the bass and I was like, fuck, that's like...
You know, it turned the resonance.
I'll turn the bass and it didn't like, I wasn't there long because of COVID and shit like
that and we were inside.
And I heard it and I was like, I'm going to try it.
But yeah, this one, like, I don't know.
And I know like, you could immediately get like, there's books of mods that people have
made and the, you know, the accent gates are one of the complaints and you can change your
resistor and do it.
But I didn't want to like, start to gut the thing when I got it.
So you can't do that like, clicky acid thing when you take everything to like the minimum?
It kind of does, but it's just not as clicky as you'd want it to be.
Yeah.
But...
That's kind of important.
...one of three of three.
It is.
It just doesn't, it doesn't sound.
It sounds like a different kind of synth that's trying to be a three or three in a way.
But I'm still like, I would never return it because it was just so cheap and it was
just like, that would not be worth the time.
And I still think it can be used for music.
Like I still think it's different enough and that's why I like the tb3 is because it
does sound not normal and not like the og.
It sounds like digital and I kind of, I want it to not.
I don't want to do the same shit.
So the difference is kind of a good thing.
But yeah, I think I do want to get the newer tb03 that's discontinued.
So I might actually, hey, if anybody wants to trade the TR09, the baby TR09, get me up.
I would trade straight up for that.
Damn, dude.
I wish I hung on to mine just a couple months longer.
I could trade you for you.
Yeah.
I would trade the TR09 right now, I think.
I was honestly considering when I sold mine to get the TR09 based on your high praise
of it.
I was like, yeah, I'm doing more of drums right now anyways.
But yeah, I ended up flipping it not that long ago.
That's a bum.
It's a connection.
Yeah, that would have been a great trade.
But you got the TR, you have the TR8S still, right?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
That's the only reason why I didn't get to the L9.
I was thinking, just getting it for-- I don't know.
I don't want to say authenticity because it's not a straight 909.
But it was close enough.
And I always-- having a 909 was my dream for decades.
So I was like, yeah, it would be cool to get-- even if I don't use it that much, I wouldn't
mind having that thing decorating my desk.
You know what I mean?
Just as a machine to play with and look at and admire from time to time.
It's beautiful.
It's not as playable as they could have made it.
But it's fucking good.
And if you don't-- the bitches, if you want to run it off USB power, that's not just a
dedicated power outlet.
There's going to be a ground loop.
But it sucks because it would be-- it was convenient just to have it hooked up to my
modular USB power.
You know, that was cool.
And then I realized it sounded like shit.
I don't know why they didn't build real power supplies for those.
But we've talked about that.
Yeah.
But yeah, enjoying making acid music, I have three of them I can play with right now until
I return Prezlop.
So it's pretty fun to play around.
So aside from that newer Roland 1, are you eyeballing any other possibilities right now
instead of to replace the Behringer with?
I would.
Maybe a modular or something.
If there was the Dinsync 303 stuff still available, the modules, I would get those.
That's the same boat I was into, yeah.
Yeah.
That was actually--
I was like, man, I wish these were available.
I would jump on this right now and I would kind of kick myself in the ass for not when
they were.
Yeah.
Also, Sean was wrong.
And that input on the TD3 is not a CV input.
I should have checked.
It's an audio input on the filter.
Yeah.
And that was a bummer.
It's like, I want the module because I want CV control over the filter because that just
sounds like, you know, you know you're going to be able to take it to a different territory
doing that.
Absolutely.
The Roland 1 has a-- had a gate in, I think.
Yeah, it does trigger in, which is cool.
Yeah.
So you can kind of get modular within that regard at least.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, you can feed it some different sequences, which is nice.
I also realized I don't really like the OG 303 programming.
I guess nobody really does except for people who've pushed through that.
But the Tb3, the IR1, that's fucking so much easier to program a lot of things.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
The sequence around that thing was something I miss as well.
It's awesome.
But yeah, I was never a huge fan of programming OG 303 stuff either.
I remember Ryan made fun of me for that one time.
Yeah.
I forget where we were.
We were at a gear store somewhere.
Or maybe we were messing with someone.
I can't remember.
But you knew that I could mess with acid stuff for a while.
We had many a discussion about it.
And then I kind of fell off track because I was--
even the VSTs that I had, like, shit, what the hell was it?
The D9 one or whatever?
Oh, the F2.
F2 is so calm.
Yeah, whatever.
Yeah.
I would put it into, like, free mode and I would just sequence it using, like, piano
roll and stuff like that instead of, like, sequencing it on the onboard sequencer.
So I just didn't for OG 303 sequencing.
Yeah.
I remember the one time I was trying to do something and I couldn't remember off top
of my head.
I was like, shit, how's that work?
And Ryan was just obviously like, wait, you don't know how to program a 303.
I'm like, I forget, dude.
I was like, I kind of always hated it.
And I just kind of, like, you know, stopped giving a shit about remembering how to do
it because, like, any time I'd do acid, I would find some other way to program it.
Even on the-- what the hell was the round one that I had?
Oh, the fucking revolution.
The revolution, yeah.
That was it.
Look.
Like, even the revolution, I was kind of taking external sequencers to that thing most
of the time, you know?
I mean, I had the 777, but I still don't miss that.
You had that?
Yeah.
I depth-- that's how I got my 808 as I traded the 777.
Oh, dude.
I always wanted one of those.
It was cool.
Like, yeah, it was good, but people compare it to like a pro one.
And I don't know.
I've never really used a pro one, aside from that on the hook that I just built.
That's kind of why I liked it.
It had that, like, more industrial vibe to it than the straight, like, 303 emulation.
You know what I mean?
It was like a weird base-sense sound of its own thing going on.
I always wanted one, but--
It was way more than that.
Totally agreed.
Yeah, I had that Futurato XS, too, and I did not like it.
And that one was more MS-20 kind of filter.
Yeah.
I just don't-- I like his stuff for the way it's kind of designed, but I can never gel
with the sound really.
Still want an Avalon, but--
Yeah, that's--
I don't think that's ever going to happen at this point.
That's the thing.
There's a perfect circuit has an RE-303 right now that didn't sync one, a black one that's
actually 1,200 used.
That's by far the lowest I've seen for one of those, but that's not-- that's not happening.
I don't want-- yeah.
I'll spend $1,000 on a 303.
That's the thing.
Like, I don't know.
I've never heard huge, huge differences between a VST, you know, and like the OG.
Like my ear for acid isn't that well-trained.
I just know what I like and I know what I don't like when it comes to acid lines, but spending
something that costs over $1,000 is just unjustifiable to me to make something that you can make for,
you know, a Zoxbox.
Like you spent like, what, 300 on yours, you know?
Yep.
The Barringer's 130, for fuck's sake.
Uh-huh.
You can get VSTs for even cheaper.
I don't know.
It's hard to--
You get the TB3 for like 120 bucks on eBay right now.
That's fucking-- that's really cool.
Like, as I was telling somebody, like nobody was bitching at the rave when that was ripping
away.
Like, nobody's like, hmm, that kind of-- it's close to a 303.
Yeah.
It sounds good.
Nobody was bitching at the rave when that thing was ripping away.
What the fuck happens to me?
We've already discussed-- uh, reverb, though.
Yeah, straddle.
I can't get back into that territory.
I was just saying how insane it is that people are charging well over a grand for 303 emulations
at this point.
Like you said, Greg, it's-- there's more like-- for me, it's more there are certain reference
points with music.
And a lot of it is weird plastic man shit that I know that when I hear it in the machine,
I know like that it's right.
You know, it's just my total bias of it.
Like, I don't like distorted 303s.
I like when they go into like liquid territory and the shit that can happen there and like
slides.
And I did-- I like the slide sounds from the TD3 so that'll be useful.
And it's really-- that's a lot of what I'm enjoying fucking with right now.
Yeah.
It's like the worm aspect of it, you know.
Yeah, fucking 303s.
Fuck 'em.
I love 'em.
Wait, was that the takeaway from all that?
Yeah, fuck ass.
Sorry, man.
Fuck 'em.
Yeah, if I'm having fun making ass--
[LAUGHTER]
It is funny, though, how people will be like, "Oh, that--"
That sound is so tired and then it's just like, everything is done, you know?
Like, just enjoy it.
It's all over.
There's nothing new.
I mean, that's kind of the mindset I was in for the longest time, dude.
That's why I was trying to avoid anything 303s for a while.
It's like, "Yeah, it's been done to death."
You know, I was like, "I don't need--"
"Gree."
"I don't need any more acid in my life."
But like, after being off of it for so long and like-- just listening to a lot of
break-horse stuff lately, like my passion for it has been rekindled.
That's all once again.
Yeah, I was there too, where I was like, "Oh, I'd never use that again."
And then, it was that TB3, which is like-- I don't know.
I like to program that thing on the couch.
It's a lot of fun just to sit there with headphones.
It's USB powered, so fucking cool.
That might be the one I end up with in the end.
I'll just eventually record the baron-dr while I'm destroying it.
I'm doing demos on the poly and tracker with acid loops too,
reminding me how much I used to love.
Hearing that and fucking around like that, you know,
showing up stuff, nothing like shattering an acid line in a tracker with some broken
beats.
You know what I mean?
Oh, fuck yeah.
That to me is more like my speed when it came to acid stuff.
I never really got into too much acid techno, unless it was like--
the super fucking distorted shit on top of Gabbar.
Like DJ Tron or DJ Paul, shit like that.
Blit-erating somebody's nice acid line through 20 preamps.
Shit like I just had like--
I do like it.
Like if it's going to be distorted, I want it to be taken to that level.
Yeah.
I don't want like the-- I'm not a chemical brother fan,
but I always hated like the distorted, like--
it almost has like a subtitle like distorted 303 on like the movie caption, you know?
It's like, ugh.
But yeah, when it's really blown the fuck out, like I've been that thing running through
the effects aid has been fucking sick.
That's been like the signal path really is all the acid boxes through the effects aid
and the H9 in parallel or series, I'm sorry.
Well that could be a good segue into the effects aid.
Truly.
You guys finally got them.
And I still don't.
The journey of the effects aids.
I'm a little bummed.
The white whale has been caught.
We just end the podcast now.
Still like--
Got the white whale.
We got two of them through lights of fancy.
But like how do you get a module from Glasgow to Pittsburgh in like under 48 hours for like 12 bucks?
And but signal sounds could do it.
They were the only place that had effects aids.
Tons of people bought them from the States and we all had them like the next day.
I think like at that point FedEx was just is still just trying to show up the USPS that's been
crushed under the boot of fascism.
But yeah, signal sounds got the modules here.
We had another route that we actually ended up getting a second one through that I passed
on to Dave.
Dave and I both have effects aids now.
What do you think about the effects aid?
I think it's incredible.
The stereo in and stereo out is a nice touch and kind of amazing given it's only 4 HP.
Every algorithm I just have the original set of algorithms.
I haven't screwed with them yet.
Mainly because, you know, like I've sort of tried each of them but I've not dug in.
I've just got out of it just with the base set of algorithms.
There's plenty of them already.
And I have yet to find one that didn't sound good at least in some way.
Which I can't think of the multi effects I've ever had that everything sounded good.
Like this does.
Oh yeah, I fully agree.
Like if you couldn't upload more algorithms, I would still recommend it just as strongly.
If I had to pick one fucking effects processor in the studio hardware software that I could
keep, it would be the effects aid.
I'm pretty comfortable with that.
Same here.
I don't know.
It's the amount of like there's a lot of a really small and cramped module granted the Excel was
just released which is cool.
It's got the right amount of control that single CV in but also the wet dry in the sample rate
stuff which is actually really cool and I haven't played with too much yet.
And like you said the full stereo path and the fact that it just sounds like it's just
like kind of a little bit magical.
Yeah and the CV is assignable which I think is a nice touch.
Being able to be able to set what parameter you want the CV to control even like even
the Pico DS he doesn't have that.
Isn't he doesn't have that sort of reassignable or configurability to it.
How do you do that?
You have to use the software editor to set those parameters or use the buttons.
It's with the buttons.
Yeah.
Yeah it's real intuitive too because I'm getting a little worried.
I'm like oh this is crossing over into like a thousand button combinations but really the
buttons are for left right algorithm select and then there's some holding down things for
assigning the CV.
You assign the CV to which parameter which argument you want and then it's just it's
persisted.
And also nice that some of the algorithms use a mono input and the second input is for
the clock so you can do clocked delays and then do multiples of the delay time synced
beats.
So it's like it covers everything basically.
It is funny sitting there because I have it like right beside the ZDSP and I can't get
rid of the ZDSP because mainly for halls and Marianna trench but looking at the two of
them I'm like alright I'm going to use this FXA that's 4 HP all the time and everyone
wants it all to use this monstrous oversized ZDSP.
It's kind of painful to look at how much space.
Yeah I can like oh yeah or I can just get like six FXAids in that same space.
Yeah.
That's what like kind of throws me is they're both spin FV1s right.
I think the Pico DSP has also spin.
Oh no shit okay.
It's not like it's some crazy brand new hardware that they're you know they're just getting
a lot out of this in a way that people have not in the past.
Right.
I mean I will say there's one obvious complaint and it's pretty minor especially considering
it's an FX module and I'm not going to be you know sort of jamming on it that much.
The knobs are absurdly cramped.
Yeah they are.
It's a little intense.
It's full on like I can't turn all the way.
You sort of spin it like you're loosening a screw is how I've been using it.
It's a minor complaint.
If I was it was like a filter cut off or residence that I was like jamming on and needed to
like have a lot of tactile control over it might be a bigger issue but I don't know I
tend to just have a set it and forget it when it comes to FX.
Right.
It's kind of I was kind of surprised they used full knobs on there because you can get those
tiny ones now from like Thonk that shit I don't remember what they're actually called
but they're like barely bigger than the the Jack you know what I mean like they save so
much space like I had them on my Bifaco bursts.
They just came on there to like save space because that was a pretty cramped module too
and they're like really nice you know kind of want to buy a bunch of them from Thonk
and replace all the tiny knobs on some of my stuff with those but I don't think they
come in D shaft I think they're shit whatever that other format is that set screws or whatever
they are.
Yeah but I mean it's it's a super super minor.
I mean it's definitely not enough to dissuade anyone from getting it and I think the XL seems
like it's maybe handling it a little bit better.
I'm not really I'm not rolling out getting an XL just for the extra little bit of space
and stuff that it adds to it because you know if it's just this plus more there's nothing
wrong with that sounds.
Yeah I want the XL definitely eventually when I get it looks the 4 HP one makes sense if
you have the XL because that's like okay I've also got this tiny one that I can put into
like a smaller rig and still get it done.
Yeah.
Yeah I'm kind of holding out for the XL now that it exists.
Yeah they were up on signal sounds too and they sold out with the quickness of course
I think it was like 40 minutes.
I didn't even try to look I was like oh that's cool I'll get one of those someday.
I knew there was no possibility I mean getting one immediately so.
I mean great if you can find one I think I think you'll you will dig it I think it's
um.
Delay with foul filter in the feedback loop.
That's the fucking hotness.
How many algorithms can you have loaded in there at a time?
32.
Like there's more than like more exist than you can fit on there one time right so you
got to kind of pick and choose what you want.
Okay.
Yep.
It's not a hard decision though I mean because there's a pretty good amount that you can
put on it.
Did the XL expand upon how many you could have in there or is that still the same?
Nope I think that's the same.
Right on.
Just further control more CV inputs dedicated sample rate reduction input which is cool.
Micro T18 knobs is what I was thinking of.
Good job.
You can get them from Thonk now.
They're pretty awesome but yeah they're T18 shaft only no D shaft unfortunately.
Hopefully they do they do both at some point.
Yeah I want to put some different ones on the 352 I'm just really tired of those fucking
the ones that Paul uses look good and all but they're too big and you always nail the
knob like the fuck the pitch up.
It's frustrating.
Something smaller would be cool.
While we're on the topic of effects I could dip into the noise engineering thing real
quick.
Yeah I took a leap.
I decided to buy another module when I was trying to take a break and not buy any new
shit.
So I'm just trying to get some recording done and I didn't want any more distraction
or have to learn something new.
But I did it anyways.
I got the noise engineering desmodus versio.
I have no clue if I'm saying that correctly but close enough.
That's right.
Well we thought we were right before and then when we talked to them it turns out I think
we were mispronouncing most of the module names at the time.
So I'm going to assume that we're mispronouncing this.
It's like pronouncing a taker or moog, moog.
We're just going to have their own variation of how they pronounce it.
I'm fine with that.
Auditure, Otter, Tomato, Tomato.
Is there a proper way to say Otter?
Otter.
I think it's Otter.
That's what I thought.
Okay.
Or is it just debatable?
We'll never know.
Back to the desmodus versio.
I wasn't too hyped about it.
I don't think any of us were really after the demos that we saw from I believe it was
too hyped.
Yeah.
The gentleman with the bed nail polish showing off.
White noise sounded through a shimmer algorithm.
I wasn't totally against it but it was entirely based on the idea that I trust noise engineering
and I was like you know what this is probably just a fucked up demo.
I'm going to keep an open mind.
Yeah.
I tried to keep an open mind in the background.
I was like I'm not going to write this off based on these horrible demos.
I was like I'll see how it develops.
I took a gamble about it.
It's not the cheapest effects module out there.
It costs $3.45.
For kind of like a one tricky pony.
You know what I mean?
What is the trick that it does well?
Well, it's strictly reverb but it's a very malleable reverb.
You can take it into like weird delay territory as well.
It's not the smallest now that effects aid exists and it's definitely not the largest
compared to like a ZDSP or something.
It's 10 HP.
It's like kind of middle ground territory there.
And yeah, it's stereo in, stereo out or mono in, stereo out.
So that was like right off the bat.
A significant improvement over the tip top Z-verb that I had which I just sold this week actually
after playing with the Versio enough.
I was like yeah, this thing is definitely still in the spotlight.
I have a few criticisms of it but I'm just going to go over the important shit first
that I like.
I like how they crammed that much functionality in there into a tiny package.
It doesn't feel cramped but it's definitely utilizing the full panel.
I like the form factor of it.
It's very reminiscent of other noise engineering modules.
It's got the two three way switches, the control, the different modes, all the knobs on there
aren't full rotary which I'm very much into.
As we've discussed in the past.
It feels more like the BIA than anything in my opinion and it pairs up with it very well.
I can easily see having a dedicated Versio for each BIA in your rig.
Like I have two BIA's currently and I want to get a second Versio just to have them like
paired with the BIA's because it just opens up a lot more sonic possibilities from it
more so than other verbs that I've paired with it.
It seems to be very percussion oriented which is one reason why I'm really into it.
I didn't need another big room, big hall sounding verb.
Like the Z DSP halls of a hall I already cover that territory pretty well.
In my herb herb I think can cover that some degree even though I usually use that for medium
spaces.
Yeah, if it's running tiny sounds through it to give it more character I think is the
strong point of it.
I was wondering what you meant by percussion but that makes total sense.
Just like letting that kind of space characterize the sound a little more than some wash.
Exactly, I feel like it really shines on as a percussion sound processor adding a stereo
feel to smaller monophonic sounds or even smaller granular sounds.
For example something you're processing through clouds and you have it really tight, really
short grains and you want to give that more space more manipulation.
I don't know just more manipulation.
You can pair the two up really nicely.
My experience is so far.
I wasn't hyped for the shimmer aspect of it at all that was featured in those early demos.
Never been a huge fan of shimmer but even when you have this thing in shimmer mode you
can take it down into other territories, weird delays, things like that where it doesn't
sound like your typical shimmer.
It just sounds like something unique.
You can really sculpt with it so far.
You have three different reverb modes.
You have limit, distort and shimmer.
Limit is very clean, has integrated limiting to keep the feedback way under control.
It won't go off the rails.
Then you got the distort which is like lo-fi saturation verb and then your shimmer which
is your standard pitch shifting shimmer stuff.
But then on top of those three modes you have three different modes that control how the
regeneration and delay lines are handled.
You have blend, interpolate and jump.
Blend is very smooth, it's cross-fated.
When you shift the delay lines you can hit this mode very hard with CV and it's going
to keep everything intact.
It's not going to sound like when you're just tweaking the time knob on a delay pedal type
of thing.
It keeps the shifts smooth.
Interpolate, you start to get that type of typical pitch shifting effects with the delay
line shift and all that.
Then you have jump which is more like glitchy, drastic jumps in between the delay line shifts.
Between those six modes you can get into a lot of different areas.
It is kind of a one trick reverb but at the same time you have enough flexibility there
where you can do all kinds of different sounds with it's one trick.
I guess you could say.
Do you see yourself keeping this or is this something that you don't see having along the
lifespan?
I'm kind of loving it already.
I don't think it's going to be going anywhere anytime soon.
Like I said I do a lot with percussion and this fits in with that very well so I don't
see me flipping it for anything else at the moment.
There's nothing else that I own currently or would like to own that I think would do
this better.
I mean you can use this for like bigger verbs but I just don't think that's a strong point.
You could probably do your blade runner stuff through it.
But as I kept messing with it to my ears I kept hearing skinny puppy mangled delay drums
or like oddature style percussion glitching.
It's more of a mangler than just like a set it and forget it reverb.
Like it kind of begs to be modulated and hit with envelopes and accompany percussive
stuff.
So yeah I'm digging it.
Like I said like it pairs with clouds very well.
It's like a Riggs and Murtaugh type of buddy system I got going on there with between the
two.
It's like a lethal weapon of modulation and mangling one could say.
But you're not too old for this shit.
I am too old for this shit.
Oh god, definitely.
But yeah no clouds have still never gone you know anywhere recently in my rig and I feel
like this is going to pair very well with it and with my other noise engineering stuff
and with my drum modules in general.
Also has a tone knob which is important to me and is definitely going to add to like
the longevity of this thing in my rig.
Like all of my favorite reverbs whether it be a VST or a pedal or a module have been
ones that feature tone control.
And this one I love how they implemented it here.
It sounds good.
If you like a 12 o'clock there's no filtering applied and then as you move clockwise it
goes through high passing and it sounds pretty nice.
Anywhere counterclockwise you start low passing and you can get pretty dark territory out
of it.
It sounds like it adds some resonance but not like out of control you know like I don't
know what type of filter circuit it is but it's pleasing in my ears.
Being able to high pass the processed signal is especially good in my mind for percussive
and drum processing.
You know what I mean.
Doing weird reverb mangling was always something I would do pre-distortion and so being able
to get the low end in control without having to patch the wet signal through like another
filter or anything like that.
Pretty convenient before hitting like my saturation circuits and things like that.
Yeah overall digging it my criticisms are minor which I could start getting into I suppose.
There's no time like the present to get into criticisms.
So first criticism is that the CV inputs while there's a lot of them they're all zero to
plus five.
Never been a huge fan of positive only CV inputs.
I've always been a fan of bipolar.
Same.
Yeah so a little bummed to see that on here.
But you know like I said envelopes work well with it so I've been using my Zadar with it
and things like that.
Because it's so much easier for digital stuff you know it's a lot simpler if they can just
deal with positive zero to five.
Right.
But not for us.
Right yeah and I get that but I have seen many digital modules with negative voltages
you know compatibility so it's like I don't mean maybe it adds to the cost overall and
they were trying to keep it you know not as expensive or something.
Not sure.
Just something I would have liked to have seen.
Yeah for sure.
ER301 does it with no issues.
Yeah but yeah the other minor criticism is there's no pre-delay or clock sync.
Yeah I would have liked to have seen that for sure.
Again like I can see how there's no possible way they could have crammed that into the
panel in its current state it's pretty full.
But if I don't know if they were to increase the size by like another two to four HP I
feel like they could probably have fit that on there and that would have made this all
the more better you know especially for percussion processing and things like that.
You could have had things in sync to your clock or you know shift the clock in conjunction
with your percussion sequences things like that CV control the pre-delay like I do a
lot on like the herb verb for example just to give things a weird glitchy character.
It's just one of my top favorite features of reverbs and this one is lacking it.
So it's a bit of a bummer.
Maybe they'll do like an expansion panel at some point to add some more features to it.
I don't know if that's something they would ever consider but if they do I feel like that
would be something to add to it.
Did it look like there were expansion pins on the back of it?
I didn't really inspect the back too closely I saw a USB jack which I guess is used to
update it and things like that or to load the other firmware which will be coming in
the future but yeah I didn't really check other connections.
And then I guess my last criticism was there's no CV control of the two three-way switches
that control all the different modes.
That's pretty common for them.
Very common and you know confused me being that it's such a staple with like other noise
engineering modules that they didn't implement it here.
Like at first I thought maybe I was just missing something and there was some way to do it.
I had to like read the manual and I was like no there's definitely no way to do this.
Again probably just due to the fact that they couldn't fit more jacks in its current
state.
So again like they were to make it a little bigger or add an expansion.
I would love the CCV control over that.
Read a lay with clock sink in and other than that like I think.
So I think that's a good thing.
I think that's a good thing.
Maybe.
Just me flipping them around manually was fun for me.
As I was doing it, I was like, man, I really wish I could do this using CV.
They keep calling it a reverb, but to me I'm just calling this thing a manger.
I feel like that's what it's best at.
That would have just opened up so many more doors to mangling possibilities if you could
hit those with gates and things like that.
Even if it made it a little bigger or a little more expensive, I would gladly pay to a few
extra bucks to have that type of functionality on this thing.
It's going to be open source, they say, by the end of the year, and they're going to
have different firmware.
Maybe there'll be other firmware that will be open that up.
Maybe they'll steal one of the other CVs and apply it to that mode.
I mean, it seems like something you could do in a firmware update.
If someone has similar idea to you, that's what they would rather have.
Sure.
Because in its current state, it kind of feels like it wants to be everything like, oh,
do you want to do big shimmery reverbs?
You can do that, or if you want to use it as a CV manger, you can do that too.
Maybe someone will make some firmware that is strictly like, yes, this is 100% for fucking
shit up, mangling audio, creating strange, time shifting spaces and textures.
Parasite, just kind of--
Your Parasite firmware version.
Exactly.
And add that type of CV control over the mode switches and things like that.
It is a versatile vampire.
Yeah.
That's what that means, right?
I like it.
It's got a little bat on it.
It's got a super proper goth.
Unlike the-- what was it?
The Teretas Manus that I call it, the mall goth version of the BIA.
Right.
Yeah.
The Versios proper goth.
I like it.
This dude-- he's listening to some bot house and trying himself to sleep every night.
If we were going to knob con this year, I would be trying to get some time with their--
bigger percido modules.
I would like to try the-- I think it's the Manus percido maybe, is the one that might be interesting.
Because I think it had some wave table shit, if I can remember.
Right.
But yeah, neither of us-- I think we texted about it a couple weeks ago.
But I've-- it was never-- you know, there's the Teretas-- curses the Teretas and the Lokelic
a Teretas percido.
I think I've tried the Lokelic and I know that's just the regular one with envelopes.
But I'd like to try the curses.
I'm not going to buy it though.
I want to play with it first.
Yeah, I've never taken the leap to get the big ones.
I've always done the smaller ones.
And although I've enjoyed most of them with the exception of the Manus, mainly because
I couldn't stand the full rotary knobs.
Like, that just bothered me.
I couldn't-- you know, it's harder for me to dial in my sweet spots.
Like, I've enjoyed most of them, but I feel like none has ever, like, usurped the ability
to be a player like you served the BIA for me.
Like, I feel like that is still like their strongest, most well thought out classic module.
And it's going to be hard to beat, I think.
And this vampire, I think, you know, is going to be up there with the BIA as being like a classic
module in their lineup and pairs well with the BIA, like nothing else.
Like, even if you're just using it as like a weird, you know, to give the BIA a little bit
of stereo width and like some filtering using the tone functionality.
Like, you don't even have to dip into all the delays and things like that.
I think it's cool in that regard.
Like, I've been having a lot of fun with it so far more than I expected.
So, the tip top is out.
No more Z-verb.
And the Versio is in sitting right next to my herb verb and my Z-DSP.
You've had the herb verb for a hot minute now, too.
I can't imagine you ever letting that go.
I don't think I ever will, no.
Every time I think that I'm bored of it, I find some other use for it.
Like, there's just so many ways to use it that keeps me happy with it.
Even if, like, I'm not processing with it, like, just using it as a, like, zero input feedback generator.
Like, I've gotten so much mileage out of it in that regard.
Like, it's just a staple in my rack, just like the halls of a holla.
You know, like Dave was saying, like, as big as the Z-DSP is and, you know, how much juice that thing is drawn off the rails
and everything, just to run a single reverb algorithm with three controls.
It's just a classic sound that I don't see going anywhere out of my rig anytime soon, at least.
That's, like, I think going to be my three staples now when it comes to my big digital processing.
Versio, herb verb, Z-DSP.
Hopefully, someday, I'll be able to squeeze an Fx8 in there, too.
But, yeah, that's all I have to say about the vampire.
Versio.
What else is on people's lists?
It's on your list.
What's on my list?
Um, I had the Fx8 on my list.
Um, I have something on my list that's probably not worth being on my list, but I will mention that, uh,
um, sort of through searching on modular grid, I think other people have found things in a similar sort of way of, like, um, what's this?
I didn't know this existed.
Um, after later, uh, audio, they make a bunch of mutable stuff, including some, um, one-U tiles in IntelliJail form.
I could basically not get the plum audio.
Um, peaks knock off in ornament and crime.
So, why couldn't- why doesn't that work?
They still try to sell things on reverb, right?
I don't know how that's- I couldn't get anything to work, uh, buying off of them.
And they- I was emailing back and forth with them.
They were trying to think, "Oh, we're so sorry.
We needed an update to our store and try again."
And it wasn't working for me.
And after, like, it was a couple of weeks.
I really wanted it and, um, you know, they were given, like, a pretty serious effort to get this to work.
So, I was like, "Okay, yeah, yeah, give it a shot."
We both didn't work.
That's still an end reverb.
Yeah, neither of them worked.
Um, and so I basically just gave up on- which was a bummer, but then I came across these, um, after later ones.
And they make a peaks one.
They've got this dual, um, VCA.
And, uh, what I ended up getting was, um, the one-U peaks.
And they've got a 4-HP version of, um, but it's only two channel- two VCA's of, um, mutables, vase.
Um, which I want, uh, for turning my palette into imagining someday in the future being able to actually play live, uh, live shows again.
Um, do you remember those?
Yeah.
Yeah, me neither.
Um, but this- this idea of having a- like a small- using the palette for, like, a smaller live setup, you know, being able to just have, like, a two voice, having these two VCA's, and then being able to just use them as a mixer.
Um, 'cause if you don't have the first one going out, um, it just normal, so the second.
Yeah, I was like, this is saving a ton of space.
Only 4-HP, 2-VCA's. That one's not very exciting.
But yeah, the- the one-U peaks I'm very excited about, and the version of the firmware that they have, um, is also very exciting.
Uh, yeah, that is who the mods they put on that.
Yeah.
Um, I- unfortunately I have nothing else to say about this.
I literally got this, like, an hour before we started recording, so this is a sneak preview of, um, of maybe what I'll talk about next time.
But what I do have to talk about is the WMD Carbon, or Keforbin.
Oh, right.
Keforbin.
Um, my intention was to get this to pair with Dark Matter.
'Cause right now I've got, um, or, you know, before I got this, I had a microfold and a filter.
Basically, to sort of process the feedback going out and back into, um, Dark Matter.
And then I saw the Keforbin. It's- 'cause it's got, um, three dedicated outs, low-pass, uh, band pass and high-pass.
But then also this four-pole out.
You can set it to have, um, the Synchronine wave folder on the output.
So I was like, ooh, get a little bit of wave folding on top of the filter.
This might really be killing a lot of birds with one stone.
Um, and it has a saturation circuit going into it.
And it has, uh, sort of like these four-course modes, like, you know, like off a little bit, a little bit more.
And what I imagine is all the way on.
But you can also control that with CV if you want to like dial in the saturation.
Saturation is real subtle. It is not- it's not real TV, but, um, you know, it's nice to have.
Um, I'm willing to bet it's probably the same saturation circuit from the, uh, Crater kick drum module.
It was kind of subtle on there too. It had like three different modes, but they were all kind of like a little more on the subtle saturation side of things.
It would not be my choice if, for like the only saturation, if you were interested in that sound.
Um, but it's nice to have, has a little bit of- takes something a little bland and gives it a little kick.
Um, I- overall, I really like this module. I'm gonna use it, but not what I thought I was gonna use it for.
The problem is there's basically no control over the wave shaping that comes out.
Um, you just sort of turn it on and it seems as- it has a relationship with the, um, where the resonance is at, seems to be like dictates its behavior.
But for the most part, it's just kind of off on its own, doing its own thing.
So it's really hard to dial in, um, with a dark matter and trying to get like, you know, this- this feedback loop going
and having something that has so little control.
So I'm not gonna use it what I intended for, but as a live filter, um, which they kind of promoted it as such, um, Alex from WMD, his video,
which, you know, on one hand sold it to me, I'm like, "Oh, I really wanna get this."
But on the other hand, he's kept talking about like, "Oh, this is great for live."
And maybe it's just my contrarian nature. I'm like, "Fuck that. I'm not gonna use this live. Don't tell me how to use this."
Like, um, and then after having it for a week, I'm like, "Oh, this is- yeah, I'm definitely gonna use this for live."
Um, there's a lot of cool stuff, just, um, switching modes on that, um, the- the- the four-pole out.
Um, you can do it so you can switch, highlight the one that you want, but if you're holding it down, it won't actually switch to that mode until you let go.
So you can sort of try to time it, um, with beads.
Same with, um, the wave folder is a button. Um, so you can turn that on and off in time with what you're doing.
The- the filter cutoff has a lot of different ways to- to, um, modulate it, as FM, sort of standard modulation on top of it,
and a 10- new-verter that controls that, but it also tracks, uh, a volt per octave.
So you can send a sequence, maybe the same sequence from your oscillator, maybe a different one if you wanna try to do it- uh, screwing things up with that.
Which, you know, isn't really breaking tremendous new ground, but having all of this in, you know, a really well-designed and good sounding, um, or HP filter.
Um, yeah, like I said, it's not what I- it's not what I wanted, uh, but now that I have it, I'm- I'm glad I do.
Word. Yeah. I was curious about it.
I didn't wanna dip into any more filters, though.
I was like, eh, like, I'll wait to see how Dave reacts to it.
Yeah, I'm right there with you on the filters.
Yeah, and it's not breaking new ground, especially like, um, still have the bionic luster, uh, still have the gristleizer.
I still have the Jove filters. Those are- those are the ones that have a ton of character, um, and they're- and they're part of making the sound, you know, like they're- they're- they're key-compulsive.
This is a little bit more- I wouldn't go so far to say that it's like bread and butter or like Polaris-level boring.
Which- which is funny because it's actually thinking about getting a Polaris again.
Like, that's actually kind of what I'm in the market for. Like, I have enough filters with character at this point, that I'm looking for something tiny footprint that just handles band pass filtering.
You- I didn't know you went back to zero Polaris.
Yeah, I haven't had any for a minute now.
I- I got rid of them to get the Morgasmatron, which- as much as I love as a like, MS-20 style dual mode filter, um, the- the band passes are kind of not that steep and not that great, you know.
Like, I was using my multiple Polaris as a lot to get surgical with things in like the steepest band pass modes and things like that with a little bit of saturation at the end.
And, um, I don't really have anything like that now. Like, even my- well, my Belgrade's- or Belgrade's rather.
Um, you definitely have like multiple different band pass modes, but they're also like huge and very like character driven filters and I like to keep them in use for that.
But I need some small filters with a nice steep band pass to get a little extra surgical on things with.
I would- I mean, I'm- a- I have a Polaris for sale. If you want my Polaris, I'll sell it to you. Good price.
I might be into that. Um, I mean, the price does include things like your blood and some teeth.
I like how, as you just start to say that, some weird-as haunting sounds just started happening in the background of your mic.
Oh, it's a train-out-by.
I would say it sounded like- It was good. Yeah. Some sort of industrial soundscape was starting in the background.
But, you know, I have both of those in my house right now and I'm more excited about the carbon.
Um, because I think it does what Polaris does well, but also has a couple of extra things that are nice for performance.
Uh, and you can add a little bit more excitement than the Polaris, um, when you need to with, like I said, the saturation and-
um, the wave folding on the output. So I don't- I don't know. I think maybe you should check it out.
It's like literally half the size of a Polaris. I think it's less. Cause I think the Polaris is 10.
Is it? Okay. I was thinking eight. Yeah. This is less than half. Um, I think we're talking about the same thing because if I had to choose a filter, it would not be this.
Yeah, it would- it would probably be a Bionic Lester or the Joe filters because I get a lot out of those. Um, but if I- but-
but as far as this sort of utility filter, um, yeah, this is- this is the one- this is the one for me.
Picked my curiosity. I'm gonna check it out. All right. I- I- I- I- I've let him also somehow talk to myself out of a sale.
I was hoping we were gonna fix that misconnection earlier, but no.
You're not a very good salesman.
You want to say I'm selling? It's not as good as this other thing. You probably shouldn't get it. Nevermind. I'm sorry I asked.
That's how you sell. That's how you sell coffees for closers.
I'm actually- I'm sitting here looking at this after later audio pachinko, which is- I think somebody else made a version of marbles called pachinko because it's too obvious, but I swear I almost hate to say this.
I think their panel may be better than the original marbles. The after later one.
Yeah, after later audio pachinko. It just- even looking at it, I'm like, oh, that makes so much fucking sense and it's eight. There's six HP smaller.
More than the OG marbles? Or the smaller- okay.
I love marbles panel. That's one of the few panels that like I didn't replace or shrink because I kind of like how everything's spaced and labeled on it.
I don't like how the buttons are on it to change like the modes. I don't know why.
No.
This one just- yeah, if you look at this pachinko, it's just like, I don't know. It's just- it makes more sense.
I mean, the build quality on them, like I said, I've had them for exactly an hour and 27, 28 minutes.
Unlike the baronger that you felt you could crush in your hand, these were very well built.
I've high hopes that they'll last for a while.
That is the end of my list. I really- at some point I'm going to talk about the memory palace, but that's, I guess, I will keep that for the future.
I've had it from once now.
Yeah. And you've been using the shit out of it, right?
Yeah, yeah. It's everything we talked- everything we had hoped and sort of dreamed in our "Lobcon" episode.
And I mean, there's been a firmware update since then. Yeah, it's fantastic.
I want one. I definitely need one.
I don't even really want the audio stuff.
There's bigger noise-enching. Hearing things are more of a curiosity, but I'm not.
I have too many things. I still want to- I want to get a Bibo. I want to get a Paulian tracker.
I did order the- the- the digit.
Oh. Oh, cool. That is cool.
Yeah, it's still- I ordered that a few weeks ago and they said it's basically going to be like two months.
Would we talk about that last episode?
No. But we talked about what we're eating our socially distanced back.
Right, right. I didn't know if we had talked about it.
Which was like- that was like a pseudo episode that didn't get recorded.
Sitting in a parking lot eating vegetarian cheesecks.
Seeing each other for the first time in six months and all we could do is talk about goddamn music here.
And I couldn't even make eye contact with anyone.
Yeah, just staring at the gravel.
So, I got this thing. I can do Convolution Reverb.
I'm gonna ship from Australian two months. I'm really excited.
Well, actually I have my hands on one. And in a different social distancing meet with Russ from Evetan.
We should have as a guest sometime.
Oh, yeah. Why are we supposed to do that?
I think we're supposed to do that. Yeah.
Sorry, Russ. Sorry, Russ.
This will happen, Russ. Something.
Pandemic is over.
I mean, he could join us on one of these.
It could. I feel I'd be more fun to have our first guest back for a while in person.
Oh, yeah. I totally agree.
Yeah. But he was giving me a bunch of monitors that I can use for video stuff.
Which is great because one of them was a security camera that wirelessly hooks up or can beam to a camera.
So, like, I can just do sort of like these infinite feedback.
That's not what we're talking about. What we're talking about is the digit.
So, while they're getting these from him, there's also this like this beautiful green monochrome monitor I got for him.
It's stunning. It is. Yeah.
Like just feeding anything into it and watching it.
Invert it into these sort of green gradients and like.
I love green monochrome, dude.
Yeah. Fucking beautiful. Deceivately. Yeah.
Again, not what we're talking about. He had.
He has a digit.
It was showing me how it works and all of the setup and I was blown away.
I'm still confused as to why it's a pedal.
It should just be a little synth box thing.
Why does it go right to that? That's the thing.
Russ was the one who convinced me to look into it actually.
The reason why it's in like the pedal form, well not the reason but a reason.
It was originally meant to be a cab simulator.
Like that was its main purpose when he started on it.
Like it was just doing cab simulations.
So you could have like multiple, you know, kind of like a tar rig in a box.
You know what I mean? You could have multiple different ways to process your guitar through cabinet
simulations and this and that.
So you don't have to lug around giant amp cabs.
You know what I mean? Or buy the expensive one.
Access. They make the people that made the virus.
That's what they make now is the Kemper audio shit.
They just make amp sims.
Really? Yeah, there's a market for that.
And it does. It looks, you can even see it looks like the virus tie front panel uses like the same knobs and the same screen, I think.
Interesting.
But yeah, I guess he was trying to tap into that market. That was its purpose at first.
But somewhere along the line like nerds like us started being like seeing the potential of that interface and form factor there.
It's like PD in a box or like almost a reactor in a box.
It really is.
The digit that I'm going to be using mainly for like convolution, burb and things like that.
But I also want to get the B-bow to accompany it as like PD in a box.
You know what I mean?
You can even load up like he has the code for plates in there and clouds and things like that.
So like I don't know why because I already have these in my modular, but I'm kind of like tickled by the concept of like being able to load up multiple instances of them.
In a little pedal that I can have sitting next to my modular.
I might even be able to trim down my modular a little bit.
Well that was the thing I thought was really appealing was the idea of being able to use this in a live setting.
Exactly.
Live setting is the big one.
I don't have to drag out two cases of stuff just to have like my plates and my clouds and some modulation.
I can have that all in something the size of a fucking guitar pedal.
You know like that's and I can save my configuration and my patches and not have to worry about them getting jacked up or worry about breaking my modular and someone spilling beer on it.
And if you're so inclined, if there's something about these that you don't like, just open it up and change it.
Yeah.
So I think the digit and the B-bow together is going to be a really fucking powerful like workspace.
And I'm kind of tempted once I get them both to just try and make like an EP primarily using them.
That'd be cool.
Yeah, I don't know why I'm just really excited about it.
Probably because for years and years like us three and like Ryan and others we've always had like such in-depth conversations about how we fucking hate the laptop and how great it would be to have like a nice portable interesting interface that could run you know like our favorite
type of VSTs.
And while this isn't that, it's like kind of better than that.
You know what I mean?
Like the modules and stuff and the code that he's loading into these things do exactly what I would be doing with VSTs anyways and like modulating convolution verbs fucking up granular shit, you know, generating plates percussion.
So yeah, I'm really stoked on it.
It's just the wait time is pretty heavy right now.
That's the bummer is that I found out about this like way too late.
Like if it was months ago before basically people figured this out, you know, I don't think Russ waited that long to get his.
You know, there was a window where you could have gotten one easily.
The hype train is rolling now.
People are starting to you know pay attention to these plus the guy Pauli FX.
He's like a one man band in Australia soldering these by hand.
So he's cranked in my mouth as fast as you can, but it's like a two month minimum waiting period right now.
So I'm for our listeners and for me because I'm not as close to this topic.
There's the bebo and the digit.
It's just two different firmwares on the same hardware, right?
Yes, same pedal.
I mean, if you order them from him directly, the digit will be a different color than the bebo like the kind of think right now the, I think the digit is hot pink and the bebo is baby blue.
If I recall what a high level what it's the difference between the two.
The main difference between the two is that the digit is still at like at the core a processor.
It's like it's got all kinds of cap simulation distortion and convolution reverbs.
Like a wide range of different things that you can do with convolution verb and granular verb with our call and delays and things like that.
So seems like an IDM processing box that you can get completely modular with and reroute things in the whole nine yards.
Whereas the bebo I think is more like a synth in a box.
It's like they described as like PD in a box or like generators versus just yeah exactly macro oscillator code and things of that nature percussion.
Yeah, okay, so it's just going to be looking for inputs on the one.
I believe so.
Yeah.
The differences were not all that clear to me either.
All I knew is that I liked both firmware and I was like well I like both firmware.
I don't want to be bouncing in and out, you know, like reloading it on the same device all the time,
especially because it seems so appealing to run them in conjunction with each other.
So I would rather just have two each running their own dedicated bebo and digit firmware.
No wonder do they have like some front end that you can do the shit in that's not the pedal and then push stuff on there.
Or is it you're going to do this all through the pedal interface.
As far as I know you do it all in the interface but it looks nice.
Like it's a real responsive touchscreen.
You can get a stylus and drag things around very very like audio mulch looking right.
That's what it looks like.
Ben.
Ben Flashball did a episode on his YouTube channel to kind of going over the differences between the two.
But even after watching like his 30 some minute video still wasn't 100% clear to me the differences between the firmware.
You know what I mean?
As far as like a grasp is one is mainly processing the others mostly generators.
They both seem to be fun.
Laughing thinking about that.
Do you remember that we are the music makers?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I think it's a flash bulb that was one time that he was supposed to use trying to make like a circular sign wave.
Or a circular wave form.
It was just like you know there's a logical impossibility there.
The arguments were pretty gold.
Sorry.
I haven't heard of flash bulb in a while.
That's what I immediately think of.
I did get some of his YouTube videos.
He seems like a chill dude these days.
And he went into depth about these poly pedals but still was a little unclear to me.
I was like what does what?
I'm like well there's only one way to find out and I'm just going to have to get them both.
I mean I get overly hyped about a lot of things before they're actually in my hands but they do seem like the perfect fucking solution for what I've wanted live for many many years now.
So a little stoke.
I think two of those and like maybe a poly-end tracker and that could be my live setup for a while.
I mean if live performances ever fucking exist again.
[Music]